Gandhi Institute of Technology and Management (GITAM) is a private deemed university located in Visakhapatnam, Hyderabad and Bengaluru.[3] The university was founded by the late M. V. V. S. Murthi in Visakhapatnam in 1980.[4][5][6][7] It was previously affiliated with Andhra University as GITAM College before gaining autonomous status in the year 2007.[3][8]

The campus in Visakhapatnam is one of the oldest, and spans over 80 acres.[7] Collectively, the three campuses host 19 institutions under their wing.[7]

Campuses
Visakhapatnam
Gandhi Institute of Technology and Management Visakhapatnam Campus (GITAM Vishakapatnam Campus) established in 1980, the campus sits on the shores of Rushikonda Beach. It accommodates over 6000 students and boasts 6 auditoriums, along with 5 hostels for boys and 3 for girls.


Visakhapatnam Campus
Hyderabad
Gandhi Institute of Technology and Management Hyderabad Campus (GITAM Hyderabad Campus) is located in Hyderabad, Telangana. The campus admitted its first batch of students in 2009. It has been accredited by NAAC with ‘A+’ grade and AICTE approved. ICRA, a rating agency, gives a national grade of "ICRA EB3 IN" and a state grade of " ICRA EB3+ AP" to the MBA program of Hyderabad Business School.[9]

The GITAM Hyderabad campus has seven schools - GITAM School of Technology, GITAM School of Business, GITAM School of Pharmacy, GITAM School of Architecture, GITAM School of Science, GITAM School of Humanities & Social Sciences and Kautilya School of Public Policy. The co-curricular and extra-curricular activities create a platform for various student bodies and chapters such as Indian Society for Technical Education, IEEE, Computer Society of India, IETE, IEI, ISOI and Engineers Without Borders. The campus hostel has 2 blocks each, for girls and boys with other student support services. They can accommodate 1600 students.


Hyderabad Campus
Senior industry executives visit the campus to deliver guest lectures.[10]

Kibbutz 2010
GITAM Institute of Management located at Rudraram in Medak district, organized Kibbutz 2010, a techno-management fest, in March 2010.

Kibbutz (ki-boots), a word of Hebrew origin, denotes 'a community settlement organized under collectivist principles' and connotes the spirit of working together as a team.

The competitive events of the fest included Blueprint Blues (business plan presentation), In 'Quiz' itive (quiz), Entre-prerana (entrepreneurship), Ad-X-press (advertisement designing), Tit 4 Tat (debating), Sea Program (programming and de-bugging), Chakra View (treasure hunt), Splurge (face painting), Dance-pe-Chance (dance), Dyno-Mike (singing), and Ishtyle-O-Meter (fashion show).

About 450 students from 75 colleges across the twin cities took part in the events.[11]

Pramana
The annual techno-cultural-management fest of GITAM Hyderabad which is held in the first week of Feb every year. Pramana attracts 7000+ students from all across the country and is the largest fest in GITAM. It has witnessed some international stars like DJ Mariana Bo (Top 68 DJ in the World), Shaan, Zeaden, Sunburn Campus, VH1 Supersonic, The Lost Triplets, and some singers like LV Revanth, Yazin Nizar, Saketh Komanduri, Sony Komanduri and many more. The fest also has many events like Battle of Bands that featured the Threory Band.

GIMSR Visakhapatnam campus
In 2015, the GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (GIMSR) was founded as a private medical college and teaching hospital.[12][13][14]

GIMSR enrolls 150 students annually for the MBBS undergraduate programme based on the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and 52 postgraduate students in various medical specialties.[15] The college currently has around 200 medical faculty members, 170 paramedical staff, 350 nursing, administrative and support staff.[16] GITAM has its main campus located in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, with additional campuses in Hyderabad, Telangana and Bengaluru, Karnataka.[17]


GIMSR Visakhapatnam Campus
Bengaluru
The GITAM Bengaluru Campus was established in 2012 and is located near the IT hub of the city. The campus is provided with smart classrooms, laboratories, auditoria, seminar halls, playfields, student hostels and other student support services. This campus consists of four schools: GITAM School of Technology, GITAM School of Business, GITAM School of Science and GITAM School of Humanities & Social Sciences.[18]

Bengaluru Campus
Academics
The university offers courses in the fields of engineering, science, and business at undergraduate and postgraduate levels.[19]